 
Hello everyone, I'm happy to begin this term and meet all of you! My name is Rae, she/they pronouns. I'm 25 years old, and a recent transplant to PDX. Alongside this course, I am taking CIS 121, CIS122, and CS161A. I have been in and out of community college a couple times since I graduated high school, but failed to find success. Instead, I took the last couple years to mature and figure out what I'm looking to achieve through higher education. Turns out, CS was it the whole time! I've been interested in computers and various technologies within for as long as I can recall, and sort of obsessively teach myself new things when I'm bored. Might as well go with what I'm good at!

"Dillettante - A person with a general but superficial interest in any art or a branch of knowledge." "Dillettante" is one of the best words I've ever learned to describe myself. I'd like to be able to shed the description - at least in one or two areas. My goals for this term are to reacquaint myself with classroom learning and academia, while filling the gaps which have formed through over a decade of playing with computers, software, and coding. Beyond this term, I would like to transfer to a university, obtain a bachelor's degree in CS, and then pursue a doctorate.

I have sporadic experience with almost every single aspect of web development - In fact, I have a custom linktree look-alike running at https://dailysquad.ltny.cc/ for a friend's youtube channel. I've written scripts to interact with APIs, and I've written a couple model APIs in python with Flask and FastAPI. The openness and availability of all these powerful languages and tools like Git, Docker, Ansible, Terraform, the numerous FOSS docker webapps, Kubernetes, VSCode, etc. fascinate me to no end.

I run a few servers of my own in an 18u rack, connected over cat6a to a Ubiquiti UniFi home network. I have two machines running TrueNAS for file storage, and two other machines clustered with Proxmox where I deploy virtual machines to experiment with, or deploy projects. I host a few of my own private services on these servers as well, including a MySQL server, bitwarden server, gitea server (a private github clone), and more. I secure my network with firewalls, a reverse proxy, enforcing tls for public connections, and I deploy everything on rootless docker on a virtual OpenSUSE host with SELinux. Thanks to Ansible, and a concept called "infrastructure as code", I'm able to stand all of my self-hosted services in a matter of minutes with a single command issued on my main workstation. The server rack has been an over-arching project of mine for over a year. Aside from producitvity and learning, I also use it to run a plex media server, and to share files on my network with SMB. Lately, I've been playing through a bunch of my favorite Playstation 2 games using the original hardware, booting the games off of my file server over SMB. Its pretty cool!

Outside of my (somewhat unhealthy) obsession with computers I enjoy music, video games, and wrenching on my car. As I write, I'm listening to a song by Biomes - a math rock group from my hometown in California. While I tend to enjoy more alternative (emo, math rock, midwest emo, bedroom pop, indie rock) and heavy (metal, hardcore, post-hardcore, SKRAMZ [screamo]) 3-5 piece stuff, I won't scoff at r&b, soul, jazz, blues, funk, classic 'dad' rock, some electronic and hip-hop, etc. My musical tastes are as wide as my technicological interests to be sure. Same with games, actually. I'm working through the Ace Combat series right now on PS2 and having a lot of fun doing it, too. Between rounds of Halo Infinite, and the odd Forza 5 race of course. This weekend, I'll be changing my car's motor and transmission oil and installing a new power steering pump.

Anyway, to reiterate, I am very excited to begin this term and start learning/working in a classroom setting once again!

-Rae


